We'll continue our discussion
of parallel streams internals
by focusing on splitting,
combining, and pooling.
So once again, we'll talk
about what you can change
and what you can't change
in the context of splitting,
combining, and pooling.
So that the splitting,
and combining,
and pooling mechanisms,
by default, are invisible.
If you don't do anything and you
just program a parallel stream
by saying parallelStream
instead of stream,
good things happen
without you having
to be much concerned with how
or why these good things happen.
And that's, again,
intentional-- it's by design.
Why this is the case is that
all Java collections you get out
of the box in the Java class
library on the Java platform
all come with
predefined spliterators
that can create parallel
streams, so that's great.
You can see here,
again, spliterator,
and then here's parallel stream
which uses the spliterator
method in conjunction
with StreamSupport.stream
and the true flag
to indicate you
want to make a parallel stream.
Likewise, Java also predefined
various collector factory
methods in the
Collectors utility class.
And so we have
various methods that
can do things like create
lists, create sets, and so on.
And these factory
methods, even though they
create non-concurrent
collectors,
can work seamlessly
with parallel streams,
as we'll talk
about here shortly.
And then, of course, the
common fork-join pool
is also provided.
And in fact, it's mandated to
be used with parallel streams
in order to run the
intermediate operations
on the chunks of data created
by the parallel spliterators.
This is the one that
doesn't give you
as many customization options.
You can customize the
heck out of the first two.
And we'll talk a bit about
how to customize these things,
although we'll talk in
more detail later when
we get a little further along.
You can customize
spliterator by basically
either directly implementing
the spliterator interface
or extending the
AbstractSpliterator
abstract class, and then
filling in the appropriate hook
methods, such as
tryAdvance and trySplit.
As we've mentioned before,
the tryAdvance method
is used by the streams
framework to process
elements one at the
time in both sequential
and parallel streams.
We've talked about that when
we talked about spliterators
for sequential streams.
And the trySplit
method, of course,
is what's used to partition
elements in a parallel stream.
And we'll talk a
lot more about how
trySplit works in a couple
of different lessons.
In particular, we'll
talk about it generally
in the partitioning
lesson, and then we
will go and show a very, very
detailed and cool example when
we talk about the
SearchWithParallelSpliterator
class, which implements a super
advanced version of trySplit
to take a look of
Shakespeare and split it up
into chunks that can be
searched in parallel.
So that's going
to give us really
high-end, high-performance,
fine-grained parallel
processing.
Likewise, there's also
the collector interface.
We've talked before about
non-concurrent collectors.
And it has all these
methods that you can use.
We'll also be talking
about concurrent collectors
here shortly, and
you'll get a chance
to compare and contrast the
performance characteristics.
And then there's also this
mechanism which we briefly
talked about earlier.
We're going to talk about it a
lot more detail in this section
on parallel streams
as well as the section
on the fork-join pool framework.
And this is
basically used to add
new threads to the
common fork-join pool
if operations block.
And it's called,
interesting enough,
the manage blocker interface,
and it's very cool.
It's something that most
people who program with Java
don't know much about.
In fact, there's a lot of
misleading folklore out there
that you can't use
parallel streams
and you can't use the fork-join
pool for blocking operations.
Nothing could be
further from the truth.
They work perfectly well for
blocking operations, things
like blocking I/O, or blocking
unsynchronizers, or blocking
queues, and so on.
It's just that you have to
know how to use manage blocker
properly so I will help to
dispel those mistaken folklore
myths and give you very solid
grounding for how to use
these features in practice.